---
layout: default
title: Proposal
permalink: /proposal.html
---

CSE 490H Capstone

Rylan Hawkins, Amit Levy, Jeff Prouty

h2. Overview

Implement a distributed hash table for use as a file store of a distributed file system.

h2. Objective

The objective is to create a file store remotely located on the Internet that allows clients to store and access data. With the constant improvement of internet connectivity, the idea of having a remote file system is feasible. Our goal is to implement a file system which communicates seamlessly with highly available, low latency service located outside of the client's LAN. The service will be able to tolerate hardware/software failure and scaling with no noticeable difference in service to the end user.

h2. Implementation

h3. Milestones

# Implement Chord overlay network
# Design and implement a distributed hash table (DHT) on top of Chord
## Replicate DHT data to enhance availability of data in the case of simple node failures.
## Expose a request handler to fulfill client requests
## Provide replication at the application level to detect stale reads (given certain assumptions)
# Design and implement a distributed file system (DFS)
## Design a meta-data and block storage scheme
## Provide a client-side DFS module

h2. Interesting Scalable Systems Problems

Chord scales well. This property is inherent to Chord's design. Chord guarantees it can locate a key on the ring with O(log(n)).

By harnessing Chord's ability to scale look ups, the Donut implementation will ensure reliability and availability of data by means of smart replication of data across nodes on the ring.

h2. Resources we require

We need a cluster of machines to run our servers on. For testing client interactions, we need to simulate internet conditions between the server cluster and the remote clients. 

A candidate cluster is the 002/006/022 CSE linux computer lab machines. They are all open to the internet and are a local cluster with real network traffic patterns (including other applications and services running in the same cluster).

h2. Mentors

* Arunabha Ghosh
* Jeff Carollo

